Now we saw the for loop and the for/of loop,
now there also is the for/in loop for going through all the key-value pairs in an object.
Now, I also want to do this here in the printLogHandler because there in the for/of loop, log entry
actually is an object, right?
It's this here and this is a Javascript object and you can have loops inside of loop, so you can have
such nested loops.
You can't have a normal for loop in a normal for loop,
you can have a normal for loop in a for/of loop,
you can have a for/of loop and a normal for loop, so you can mix and match them as you need.
You can also have if statements inside of for loops and for loops inside of if statements and the
same is true for while loops. So you can combine these structures and these concepts as you need to,
that's also very important to understand. You are not limited to only using for loops or any loop on
the top level of a function. You can use some outside of functions, inside of if statements, inside of
else blocks of if statements, inside of other loops and if statements inside of loops and so on as I said,
so you can nest these structures as deep as you want.
So here for example, I want to adjust my output here and I want to console log a little string identifier where
I use the back tics to dynamically inject a value,
then I'll add a hash symbol, a hashtag and then this dollar sign curly brace syntax to output the
index,
so that's basically just giving me the number of this log entry starting at 0 and then I don't want
to console log the entire entry like this but instead, go through all the entries in there, all the key
value pairs in there
by adding such a for/in loop. It looks a lot like a for/of loop, you create a constant because just like
with the for/of loop, this variable,
this constant is recreated for every iteration and then here, we get access to the key,
you don't have to name that key, you can name it whatever you want, you could name it property, whatever
you want to name it,
I'll go with key, then you use the in keyword and then your object, either created in place just as you could
create an array in place here if you wanted to or more often, you refer to some variable or constant
which holds an object,
so in this case to log entry and then you have curly braces and your loop body.
Now of course, the implication of having a nested loop like this is that this outer loop will run and
then for every iteration of that outer loop, that entire inner loop will run and only once this is completed,
the next iteration of the outer loop will kick in,
so that's how these two loops will work together - inner loop has to complete for the next outer loop
to continue and then a new inner loop is started and so on.
So now here, we can console log the key-value for example and key here really is the name of the key,
so event,
final monster health, final player health target and value,
these are the keys and that's what is stored inside of the key constant
and if we now also want to get access to the value for that key, well then we have to use a different
syntax. Then we can also console log this
but here we need to refer to our object,
so log entry and now the dot notation won't work because if we type .key here, Javascript will try
to find a key, a property named key in here and there is no key property, we only got these five properties
here,
event and so on, so there is no key property, no property with the name key because key is the name of this
constant, not of a property in the object but the value of that key constant then is the name of a property
of this object. So the value here key will be event
and for the next iteration, final monster health and thereafter, final player health and so on.
So for our object, we want to access the property with the name event and with the name final monster health
and so on
and these names are stored in key, so what we want to tell Javascript is that it shouldn't use key as
the name but the value stored in key as the name and we do that by using a different syntax for accessing
properties which we haven't seen before for objects and that's that we use square brackets here.
Now we don't use it as we use it on an array where we use 0 and 1 and so on
but instead here you can enter a property name and you could hardcode it like this, to access the property
with the name event,
so this would be similar to .event but you can also pass in key here and Javascript will then
extract the value stored in this constant and then access the property with that name on log entry
and therefore now in this inner loop, we will now log the name of the property and then its value.
So lot of talking, let's have a look at that,
let's reload, strong attack and attack and show the log
and now what you see here is a lot of output.
We have this #0 which means it's the first log entry and then we have event and its value
and then the value property and its value and the target property and its value and so on
and then because I never change i as I just see, we would need to increment this, forgot that, accidentally
deleted it,
so therefore we still have #0 here, that should be #1 with the updated code here
but then we have the next log entry with different values for the properties.
Now of course, that's not super readable but of course we can change this, for example we could add string
interpolation here to output a readable string where we then first output the key and then maybe such
an arrow here with an equals sign and a greater sign,
so this is just some text, so not something Javascript tries to pass, it will just create some text here
and then output the log entry value for that key here and now that should be more readable. If we do
it like this and we reload and we attack and strong attack and show the log,
now here if we maybe expand this a bit with the first log entry here, then event with its value, value
with its value and so on,
second log entry with index 1 and so on.
So this is how we could now output our log, if that's more readable or not,
I'll leave that up to you but it shows you how you can use different loops here and how you can also
use loops inside of loops and how you can use a for/in loop to go through all keys in an object and
still get access to the values that are stored for these keys.